---
title: "Learning how to learn the kanji"
date: 2016-06-07 18:29:41 +0100
---

In this glorious age, you can find an awful lot of help online for how to learn
Japanese effectively. There's plenty of other language-learning blogs out there
such as AJATT (now mostly defunct), a great subreddit
[/r/LearnJapanese](https://www.reddit.com/r/LearnJapanese), and a number of
self-teaching books available. Probably the most popular part of the language to
write about learning is the **kanji**, the huge set of different characters used
to form words in Japanese. Most people seem to agree that you should know all
2000 odd of the kanji taught to primary/secondary students in Japan before
considering yourself an able language user.

And in those winding blog posts and helpful comments was where I found myself
lost in uncertainty, unable to decide in which direction I should take my
studying. I got way too caught up reading how people found the 'best methods'
for self-study. I should say that I began learning the kana around August 2014,
and only began formally learning kanji at the start of this month, June 2016.
This was one of the main reasons it took me so long to begin, along with being
unsure about whether I'd keep it up and thus if it would be worth throwing money
at.

I started an Anki deck for Japanese words 3-4 months ago, coinciding with when I
bought Atelier Rorona on PS3. It had JP voice acting so I decided, "Why not test
my listening ability by running JP voice acting and trying to match words with
the English text?" I did just that and learned quite a lot.

This is probably the best decision I've made in my learning so far: *trying
something out and running with it*. As of now I have over 350 words in that and
corresponding decks! Most importantly, it got me to be **active with my
learning**.


How I'm learning
----------------

The worst decision I made is not starting to **learn kanji sooner**. I don't
feel bad about it, because being only 18 I don't consider myself rushed for time
(is that a good or bad thing?). But I wasn't sure about all the things people
were saying about it. See, the RTK method says this:

  1. Learn how the meaning of every single kanji.
  2. Learn how to pronounce every single kanji (in different contexts).

To me, this meant a weird intermediate step where I could read a sentence in
Japanese and tell you the concepts involved, but have no idea how to pronounce
it or understand it. And you know what? [Boooooooring][mlp-fim-pinkie-boring].
I couldn't bring myself to slog through a bazillion squiggles with essentially
zero immediate payout, because **I want results now, damnit!**

[mlp-fim-pinkie-boring]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mG2I-o3yUA

But at the same time I appreciated how the RTK method worked, and I didn't
really see a more efficient method. So I compromised by using an [RTK deck on
Anki shared decks][anki-rtk-6th]... TODO

[anki-rtk-6th]: https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1862058740
